# Ultra Feature Friday

## 05-Jul-2024 [03900.95.0](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.95.0)

So, Ultra Features Friday this week is focussing on version 03900.95.0 that was released late yesterday with more minor tweaks and interface refinements:
 
- [Print answer key for assessments](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.95.0-1) - following on from the ability to print blank tests for offline completion released last month, LC now has the ability for staff to print a question paper with answers to help with offline marking.  So rather than needing to login and check answers online when marking papers staff can print off a copy of the test/assignment with answers.
- [Improvements to prevent printing a question across pages](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.95.0-2) - these are just more refinements to the printing of tests introduced last month where breaks are inserted to prevent questions being split across multiple pages i.e. a table featured in a question could get split in two across two pages if occurring. in the wrong place in the printout, this now shouldn't happen.
- [Needs Grading improvements for assessments allowing multiple attempts](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.95.0-3) - when a member of staff chooses to allow multiple attempts, whilst marking there is now a way to configure which attempt(s) display as 'Needs Grading' from Submissions tab of the assessment.  Simply change the 'Attempts to grade' and/or 'Final Grade Calculation' setting in the assessment and when in the Submissions view when using the Needs Grading filter you can see which assessment are still to mark using your selected criteria.
- [Send a copy to email when scheduling announcements](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.95.0-4) - the announcement tool will now send the email copy on the day and time the announcements are posted.  In the past, staff could schedule an announcement that would present to students on the selected day and time, but not email at the same time, this now fixes that.
- [Improvements to the Group Submissions page](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.95.0-16) - improvements address overall performance and reduce the load time of the groups assignments page.
- [Needs Grading improvements for Students and Questions tabs](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.95.0-6) - in the flexible grading interface the Needs Grading filter on the Student tab will now only display students with ungraded attempts that count towards Needs Grading.  The Needs Grading filter on the Questions tab will now only display questions with ungraded responses from attempts that count towards Needs Grading.  Before it would show all attempts needing grading, even if they didn't contribute to the overall mark.
- [Recording audio and video when adding per question feedback](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.95.0-7) - markers can now add recorded feedback (Audio or video) to all question types on a per question basis. This could be especially useful for assessments that require complex explanations regarding the answer instead of having to type everything out.
- [Improved navigation when accessing feedback](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.95.0-8) - some staff choose to add feedback on a student’s overall submission and individual attempts as opposed to on a per question basis. Previously this was only visible to the student by going into their original submission.  Now they can view overall and attempt-level feedback from the gradebook without having to access their attempt.

## 07-Jun-2024 03900.93.0

So, Ultra Features Friday this week is focussing on release [03900.93.0](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.93.0 "https://help.blackboard.com/learn/administrator/saas/release_notes#3900.93.0") that was released yesterday with more tweaks and interface refinements in preparation for the big update in July/August: 

- [AI Design Assistant – output language selector](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.93.0-1 "https://help.blackboard.com/learn/administrator/saas/release_notes#3900.93.0-1") - whilst not enabled just yet, given that we are going to turn on aspects of the AI Design Assistant over the Summer thought I'd mention this.  Basically it allows staff to select a desired language when asking AI to create content for them.  Obviously the accuracy won't be 100% and would need to be proofread afterwards, but a nice addition nevertheless.
- ❤️ [Printing for assessments](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.93.0-2 "https://help.blackboard.com/learn/administrator/saas/release_notes#3900.93.0-2") - this was another feature we asked for, this allows staff to be able to provide physical printed or PDF copies of a test if required.  This means that staff could in theory ask students to undertake a test both online and on paper in a physical location, or in the event of a technical failure during the exam, they could provide paper copies quickly and easily.
- [Post immediately when creating announcements](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.93.0-5 "https://help.blackboard.com/learn/administrator/saas/release_notes#3900.93.0-5") - another feature we've asked for, staff can now post announcements straight away and not have to click the 'post' button on the announcement page.  They still can save as draft and post later, but just basically removes an additional action and mouse click to publish that sometimes staff might forget to do.
- [Prevent auto-assigning members within self-enrollment groups](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.93.0-6 "https://help.blackboard.com/learn/administrator/saas/release_notes#3900.93.0-6") - before this update Blackboard would auto assign any student unenrolled to self enrolment groups which was inconvenient, especially for students that had left the course/module but not had been processed yet.  Now staff have to opt in to this process is they want auto assignments to happen.
- [Group members list available in the selected group](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.93.0-7 "https://help.blackboard.com/learn/administrator/saas/release_notes#3900.93.0-7") - this just allows staff to be able to see what students are in what groups via a drop down instead of navigating to a separate tab.
- [Filter out graded responses when grading by question](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.93.0-8 "https://help.blackboard.com/learn/administrator/saas/release_notes#3900.93.0-8") - this has been asked for by a few staff in Cardiff, and is especially useful when marking large cohorts.  Now staff can filter out any students that have already had their question graded in the question by question view of the flexible grading interface.  Very useful considering the page loading impact on modules with 100s of students.
- ❤️  [Grader Notes on student grades](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.93.0-9 "https://help.blackboard.com/learn/administrator/saas/release_notes#3900.93.0-9") - grader notes has returned!  Although this was already available in original this function is now reinstated allowing markers to put private notes about student's work whilst grading is taking place - very useful for work being second marked or has multiple markers per assignment.
- [Improved visibility of new grades and feedback in the student gradebook](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.93.0-10 "https://help.blackboard.com/learn/administrator/saas/release_notes#3900.93.0-10") - now when students access a module they clearly get to see how many new marks they have in the Gradebook tab at the top with the title being appended with a purple number of how many new grades they have not seen before.  Useful for just notifying students when new feedback has appeared, especially if they ignore the Activity Stream and emails.
- [Return a true/false question to an unanswered state](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.93.0-4 "https://help.blackboard.com/learn/administrator/saas/release_notes#3900.93.0-4") - a detail I asked for a couple of years back, now students can revert true/false questions in tests back to an answered state, which to be honest should have been the case originally as any student might want to change their mind and abstain from an answer if they're unsure and don't want to risk getting a wrong answer.
- [Base Navigation – Course and Organization filters and personalization](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.93.0-14 "https://help.blackboard.com/learn/administrator/saas/release_notes#3900.93.0-14") - now instead of of the left right navigation buttons on courses and organisations flicking between this year and previous years they have implemented much more straight forward filtering.  Something which I know a lot for staff and student used to get confused with, especially around rollover so when new modules wouldn't appear, or they'd lost old modules., so this is a welcome addition, especially with rollover looming!

## 03-May-2024 - 03900.91.0

- ❤️ [Supporting multiple performance criteria in release conditions](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.91.0-2) - this has been requested a handful of times where multiple criteria need to be fulfilled by a student before making other content available.  This will be very useful when trying to ensure a set level of understanding is attained in several topic areas before progressing to other parts of the course.  That said, it must be noted this initial iteration only allows for building up of criteria using 'AND' to link them, i.e. if date/time is midday on 3rd May 'AND' student has achieved 80% or higher then make this content available.  I imagine that 'OR' will come in future allowing for a wider range of requirements, i.e. if date/time is midday on 3rd May 'AND' student has achieved 80% or higher in Assessment A 'OR' 80% or higher in Assessment B then make this content available; so watch this space.  It's also worth noting that the performance criteria takes on the grade format dynamically for that selected assignment, so if an assessment is points-based that criteria will be in points and if the selected assessment is graded as a percentage then it will display out of a percentage for that part of the criteria.
- [Reuse questions in Forms](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.91.0-4) - this just replicates last month's feature of reusing questions within the same assessment only in the Forms content item as well.  Useful for quickly replicating similar questions allowing for slight tweaks between them to help create forms more quickly.
- [Multiple attempts for Forms assigned to groups](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.91.0-5) - previously when assigning a Form to groups it would only allow for a single attempt for some reason, as of this release you can select multiple attempts if required.
- [Gradebook view navigation buttons are changing](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.91.0-8) - so this changes the current list view and grid view graphic icons in the Gradebook to text-based links, whilst being better for accessibility, the change might initially confuse staff.  From today a link to 'Markable items' now replaces the list icon and a link to 'Marks' replaces the grid icon.  There is also a 'Students' link to give a list of all students with overall mark displayed as well.  Whilst a minor user interface change, guaranteed this will confuse some staff in the beginning so it's worth bearing in mind.  This also means we have to change our support documentation and videos with regards navigating around the Gradebook
- [Add question feedback when grading a test by question](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.91.0-7) - this allows staff to be able to give bespoke feedback to students on a per question basis in addition any per question automated feedback.  This was supposed to be implemented with the last release but got delayed to this month.
- ❤️ [Weighted Calculation Improvements](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.91.0-9) - now instructors can assign equal weightings to items in the same categories in Gradebook calculated columns. The chosen calculation method, whether proportional or equal, applies to all categories, but can be additionally configured. In the past, weighted items in the same category had proportional weights. These weighted items were based on the possible points of each item.  This should just allow for easier and more accurate distribution of even weightings across multiple assessments of the same type/category.
- ❤️ [Restricting Original Course View Copy workflow](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.91.0-17) - this will now prevent staff from being able to 'push' content from an original course to an Ultra course.  They will still be able to copy from an original course to Ultra, but only invoking the process from within Ultra, 'pulling' content across, not the other way around.  Whilst this was the only workaround when the original -> Ultra copy function broke last month this limitation is a bid to prevent Ultra courses from getting corrupted and negate the need for the original -> Ultra 'push' process as it was designed to be pull only.
- [Align goals to questions in question pools](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.91.0-1) - staff can now align questions to goals.  We don't use goals here in Cardiff, but one school are looking to potentially trial this as it can be especially useful for competency based teaching or courses with strict PSRB requirements.  With the ['learning mastery' enhancements coming over the Summer](https://cf.sharepoint.com/:i:/r/teams/DigitalLearningEnvironment/Shared%20Documents/4.08%20Ultra%20Rollout%20Technical/Learning%20Mastery.png?csf=1&web=1&e=b1DDgl) that could see the goals utilised across the University, hence mentioning it even though it can't be used right now, so this is just more an FYI.
- ❤️ [Set the size limit for file type uploads to zero](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.91.0-13) - system administrators (Basically Uni IT) can now set certain file sizes on defined file types to zero.  Although not enforced yet, this could see file size limited on things such as videos forcing staff to use Panopto for storing and linking to videos instead of Blackboard which is not a video streaming server and offers an inferior student experience when watching videos back.  If these limits do start to get enforced I will let you know.
- [Reduced motion setting](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.91.0-12) - some users prefer to have reduced animations on websites as they find them distracting or could affect the performance of their device.  This feature now means that Blackboard will take on whatever the user's system settings are in their Accessibility motion preferences, so any windows that previously 'swiped in' from the right will just appear if they have reduced or removed animation effects selected/disabled.  These system settings can be found in:

	- iOS: Accessibility > Motion > Reduce motion (on)
	- Android: Settings > Accessibility > Remove Animations (on)
	- Windows: Settings > Accessibility > Visual effects > Animation effects (off)
	- Mac OS: System Settings > Accessibility > Display > Reduce motion (on)

 ## 03-Apr-2024 03900.89.0

 - [Default question points value changed from 10 to 1](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.89.0-5) - FINALLY the default mark when creating new questions in a test or assignment will be 1, not 10. Personally it was a daft default decision in the first place so a welcome addition as most questions would start as 1 point and then get scaled up by the Academic manually if needed. This also prevents staff from manually having to adjust MCQs from 10 points to 1 every time they create a new one which was quite annoying.
- [Duplicate questions in Assessments, Forms, and Question Banks](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.89.0-6) - this will allow staff to be able to reuse questions from within the same test/assignment, form or q-bank whilst creating it. This re-introduces much needed functionality that existed in original so good to have it back. This will mean that staff can duplicate questions that have similar stems or answers more quickly just with minor tweaking rather than using the reuse question interface or creating from scratch and copying and pasting stems and/or answers.
- [Likert answer options expanded to include 4 and 6](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.89.0-7) - this now increases Likert questions to have scale ranges of 4 and 6 options, whereas before they only offered 3, 5 and 7. Please bear in mind that the Likert question type is only available for Forms, not tests or assignments.
- [Auto-submitted indicator in attempt logs](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.89.0-8) - further enhancing the attempt logs introduced a few months back they will now log if an attempt was auto-submitted (if that option is set in the test or assignment of course). This will be great for making the distinction between students who have manually submitted their work or those who ran right up until the deadline or even ran out of time.
- [Overall grade information added to gradebook download](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.89.0-13) - not sure why this was omitted in the first place. Now the overall grade for a module/course can be added to a gradebook download/export CSV report so no need for using Excel formula to work out overall module marks.
- [Individual date adjustments from Batch Edit](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.89.0-24) - staff will have the option to bulk change the due date and availability dates (Show On and Hide After) for any item through the Batch editor interface (Top right corner ellipses in each course), not just show/hide/delete.
- ❤️ [Student feedback remains visible to students regardless of release condition settings](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.89.0-4) - ok so this is a difficult one to explain, so I'll try my best. Sometimes staff might want to hide a submission portal for an assignment to prevent further submissions, whilst still allowing students to be able to see their mark once posted. The new update now allows staff to hide an assignment submission link using release conditions whilst still enabling the mark to be available if already posted. Students will of course still not be able to see the submitted assessment feedback (If hidden by release conditions) so we wouldn't recommend this is used except for very specific instances whereby the original submission portal cannot be accessible, but the marks can be. Ideally students would always have access to the mark and granular feedback concurrently so this functionality should only be used as a temporary measure. Please note, this does not affect functionality if the assessment is manually made invisible to students using the content visibility setting (i.e. not using release conditions). Making the whole assessment manually invisible hides the item and mark completely from students so still can be used as a failsafe to totally block access to prematurely posted feedback.
- ❤️ [Anonymous posts for Discussions](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.89.0-9) - a long awaited and requested feature is being restored in Ultra from when it was last available in original. Students will be able to choose whether they want to post in a discussion board anonymously or not. That said, the onus does remain on the student to select this and could affect users if they mis-post and want to change from being named to anonymous (or vice versa) and the discussion doesn't allow for editing of comments after posting. Consequently I would not recommend that setting is used in the majority of boards created as it's more hassle than it's worth and students should generally be able to edit/delete their own responses/contributions (Unless they are credit-bearing or have a reason they need to be locked down). In addition to this, the Bb community (CU included) have asked that discussions be able to be setup as purely anonymous from the outset without the student having to select the option when posting, to which Anthology have said they're planning to implement and will update in due course when this is implemented.
- [Usability improvements for flexible grading](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.89.0-10) - in further tweaks to the flexible grading interface for Bb Assessments Anthology have now relocated the attempts drop down near the final grade 'pill' on the top right corner when viewing and assessment. In addition, they have removed the individual attempt 'pill' opting for just the final grade based on the criteria selected when multiple attempts are allowed (i.e. last attempt, first attempt, highest grade, etc.). The latter will benefit staff who have already got confused in updating the wrong 'pill' and wondering why the grade for the piece of work isn't being reflected when they've just overridden the final grade pill instead.
- ❤️ [Add question feedback when grading by student in Flexible Grading](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.89.0-11) - Bb Assignments now allow for bespoke text feedback on a per question/per student basis. Before staff could only provide bespoke contextual feedback on the assessment overall, this allows for a greater level of feedback and understanding behind the mark allocated for that question which is great.
- [Calculations changed from using BigDecimal to BigFraction](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.89.0-12) - the software library used to perform calculations in calculated columns and the overall course grade is being changed from BigDecimal to BigFraction. What this means is that for example if a course contains 3 assignments worth 22 points each and the student scores 13/22, 14/22 and 15/22, if the instructor creates a calculated column to average out these assignments, the mark would incorrectly calculate to 13.99/22. As of this update the average will calculate as 14/22 as expected. This may even help solve some issues staff have encountered with calculated columns not quite displaying correctly and offering a decimal value instead of a whole number, for those we'll have to wait and see.
- [Persistent navigation for Learning Modules](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.89.0-2) - the navigation bar will become 'sticky' and stay at the top of the screen and remains visible as students vertically scroll through content. Students will no longer need to scroll back up to the top of content to access the navigation tools if a page is particularly long.

## 03-Mar-2024  03900.86.0

- [No Due Date assessment setting](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.86.0-3) - a very minor change, especially as I knew you could this anyway just by clearing out any date/time from the settings fields and creating a due dateless assessment manshrug but hey, I'm a rule breaker smile  Bb Assignments and Tests will have a checkbox in the settings highlighting the fact that staff now don't have to set a due date/time.  This is a VERY small use case, and does need to be used carefully especially when giving feedback to students at presumably different, much longer timeframes, but a little feature improvement nevertheless.  Remember this is for Bb only, Tii won't have the this function.
- [Last used view state of flexible grading side panels preserved](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.86.0-5) - in the flexible grading interface, markers can collapse or expand the left panel (student cards) and right panel (feedback and rubrics), but this resets itself back to defaults when exiting the interface and going back in another time.  From this release the last used state is now preserved in the browser making it easier for staff to retain their marking view preference. 
- [Gradebook item statistics](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.86.0-6) - staff will now be able to select a column in the gradebook to access summary statistics for any graded item. The statistics page displays key metrics such as:

	- Minimum and maximum value
	- Range
	- Average
	- Median
	- Standard deviation
	- Variance
	- Number of submissions requiring grading
	- The distribution of grades

- [Announcement indicators and mark as read/unread](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.86.0-4) - there will now be a number indicator next to the announcement tab in the top navigation bar that signals the number of unread announcements available in that course.  Additionally, users can now mark announcements as read or unread which is great news; however, sadly there is still no way to mark multiple announcements as read/unread in one go; we've still got a feature request in for that one. *EDIT 26/02 - when the new Announcements pop up comes up, users can also check announcements as read/unread from within the pop-up box too which is handy smile

## Feb-2024 03900.84.0

- [Forms](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.84.0-1) - Forms are tests that are ungraded. They include the majority for test question types, but also include the Likert question type which is useful. Could be used for surveys, however at the moment they are not anonymised so you should warn students before deploying as a survey. Anonymity is coming, but as a starting measure is a nice to have and know of a few courses that could benefit from this.
- [Likert question type](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.84.0-2) - as mentioned already this is for forms, NOT for tests.
- [Rubrics performance level descriptions](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.84.0-3) - In the past, the performance level descriptions display option didn’t persist when navigating between submissions which was annoying to say the least. Now, the rubrics grading interface stores the most recently used display option. This means that instructors who rely on performance level descriptions when grading don’t have to turn them on each time they navigate to grade another submission. The performance level display option preference is stored on a per-user per-assessment basis.
- [Send reminders from gradebook](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.84.0-4) - Some instructors like to send reminders to students who haven't yet made a submission for an assessment. The send reminder option in the gradebook saves instructors time in contacting each student individually. They have also refined the scenarios that determine the students who will receive the reminder. A student user will be counted and receive the reminder if they didn't submit and they are available in the course; they have not received an automatic zero and they don’t have a manual override score that was posted.
- [Audio/Video Recording in feedback](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.84.0-5) - Audio/video feedback is becoming more common these days, and students report to liking it. To ensure easy and clear access to this tool, the Audio/Video option is now on the feedback toolbar. When in use, the recording window appears on the right side of the screen so that the instructor can view the student submission. The instructor can scroll through a student's response while recording their feedback. The instructor can maximize the recording window for better visibility. However, early indicators suggest it is not compatible with Safari for Mac users, we have reported this issue and are awaiting a fix
- [Missed due dates included in the Course Activity report](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.84.0-7) - Instructors can customise the missed due date alert in the Alert Settings. It's worth noting that students don't have access to these alerts as we have disabled that function. Currently they're only available to staff.
- [Long student names visibility in the Course Activity report](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.84.0-8) - Students' names that are longer than the label could originally display in the course activity report now wrap and take up an additional line displaying the whole name, great for people like me!
- [Feedback on override and automatic zero grades for Tests and Assignments](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.84.0-6) - Instructors can give feedback for overridden tests, assignment grades, and automatic zeros. This option appears in the Gradebook grid view, and the Submissions list after the override or automatic zero is entered.

## Jan-2024 03900.82.0

- [Delegated Grading improvements](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.82.0-3) - building on previous functionality Ultra now allows for delegated grading for anonymous assignments which is a welcome addition.
- [Improved attempt display in Flexible Grading](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.82.0-4) - in the past, when an instructor selected a student in the list only the most recent attempt displayed, but now the attempt shown is based on the grading status and attempt aggregation model selected. (i.e. first/last attempt or highest/lowest graded attempt).
- [Sorting controls in Students view for assessments graded anonymously](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.82.0-5) - adding functionality to be able to sort submissions by oldest - newest and vice versa for anonymous assignments which will be useful.
- [Total & Weighted Calculations](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.82.0-7) - total calculated columns, like setting up the Overall Grade, instructors may link/unlink items in a category in the calculation. They may also choose to exclude categories from the calculation. This new column allows for calculation rules where instructors can drop scores or to include only the lowest or highest score in the category.
- [Category information on the Gradable Items page](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.82.0-8) - in the gradable items view there is now a 'Category' column. This column helps instructors more readily identify which category, if any, an item belongs. Instructors can sort this column ascending or descending alphabetically too.
- [Attempt logs for enhanced assessment integrity](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.82.0-10) - after requesting ourselves, finally we get test attempts logs back!  Although not exactly the same as original currently allows for date and time of the start of the attempt, question-specific details such as question number, a preview of the question, and estimated time spent on each question.  Also a final submission date/time along with submission receipt number, final grade, and attempt grade.  A much requested, and welcome addition!
- [Unused files management](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.82.0-15) - to help instructors understand the usage of files in their course, there is now the 'Unused Files' tool. This tool helps instructors find and delete course files that are not in use. Instructors can locate the Unused Files tool in the three-dot menu on the Course Content page.
- [Batch Edit: Change to specific date and/or time](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.82.0-18) - instructors can now override the existing date and/or time for selected items. Instructors can adjust the due date time for all assessments using this option. The same feature also works on show on and hide after dates and times.
- [Grade visible to students in Gradebook when item is hidden by release conditions](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes#3900.82.0-2) - when instructors set release conditions, content is unavailable until students meet those conditions. An option to 'Hide' selected content from students on a specific date/time is now available. This setting means that staff can set release conditions without concern of hiding grades. Regardless of the setting in "When will content appear?", students can see the grade. All other functionality of release conditions is unchanged.

